Extend JSON function docs (#17758)
pingcap/docs: functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-utility.md

---

> title: Utility JSON Functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: JSON Utility Functions
```

summary: Learn about JSON utility functions.
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# JSON Utility Functions

This document describes JSON utility functions.

```

## [JSON_PRETTY()](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/json-utility-functions.html#function_json-pretty)

The `JSON_PRETTY(json_doc)` function does pretty formatting of a JSON document.

```sql
SELECT JSON_PRETTY('{"person":{"name":{"first":"John","last":"Doe"},"age":23}}')\G
```

```
*************************** 1. row ***************************
JSON_PRETTY('{"person":{"name":{"first":"John","last":"Doe"},"age":23}}'): {
  "person": {
    "age": 23,
    "name": {
      "first": "John",
      "last": "Doe"
    }
  }
}
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## [JSON_STORAGE_FREE()](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/json-utility-functions.html#function_json-storage-free)

> The `JSON_STORAGE_FREE(json_doc)` function returns how much storage space was freed in the binary representation of the JSON value after it was updated in place. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `JSON_STORAGE_FREE(json_doc)` function returns how much storage space is freed in the binary representation of the JSON value after it is updated in place. 
```

> **Note:**
>

> > As TiDB has different storage architecture from MySQL, this function always returns 0 for a valid JSON value, and it is implemented for [compatibility with MySQL 8.0](/mysql-compatibility.md). Note that TiDB doesn't do update in place updates, see [RocksDB space usage](/storage-engine/rocksdb-overview.md#rocksdb-space-usage) for more detail on this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Because TiDB has different storage architecture from MySQL, this function always returns `0` for a valid JSON value, and it is implemented for [compatibility with MySQL 8.0](/mysql-compatibility.md). Note that TiDB does not do update in place updates. For more information, see [RocksDB space usage](/storage-engine/rocksdb-overview.md#rocksdb-space-usage).
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_STORAGE_FREE('{}');
```

```
+-------------------------+
| JSON_STORAGE_FREE('{}') |
+-------------------------+
|                       0 |
+-------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## [JSON_STORAGE_SIZE()](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/json-utility-functions.html#function_json-storage-size)

> The `JSON_STORAGE_SIZE(json_doc)` function returns an approximate size of bytes required to store the json value. As the size does not account for TiKV using compression, the output of this function is not strictly compatible with MySQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `JSON_STORAGE_SIZE(json_doc)` function returns an approximate size of bytes required to store the json value. Because the size does not account for TiKV using compression, the output of this function is not strictly compatible with MySQL.
```

  "person": {
    "age": 23,
    "name": {
      "first": "John",
      "last": "Doe"
    }
  }
}
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## [JSON_STORAGE_FREE()](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/json-utility-functions.html#function_json-storage-free)

The `JSON_STORAGE_FREE(json_doc)` function returns how much storage space is freed in the binary representation of the JSON value after it is updated in place. 

> **Note:**
>
> Because TiDB has different storage architecture from MySQL, this function always returns `0` for a valid JSON value, and it is implemented for [compatibility with MySQL 8.0](/mysql-compatibility.md). Note that TiDB does not do update in place updates. For more information, see [RocksDB space usage](/storage-engine/rocksdb-overview.md#rocksdb-space-usage).

```sql
SELECT JSON_STORAGE_FREE('{}');
```

```
+-------------------------+
| JSON_STORAGE_FREE('{}') |
+-------------------------+
|                       0 |
+-------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## [JSON_STORAGE_SIZE()](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/json-utility-functions.html#function_json-storage-size)

> The `JSON_STORAGE_SIZE(json_doc)` function returns an approximate size of bytes required to store the json value. Because the size does not account for TiKV using compression, the output of this function is not strictly compatible with MySQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `JSON_STORAGE_SIZE(json_doc)` function returns an approximate size of bytes required to store the JSON value. Because the size does not account for TiKV using compression, the output of this function is not strictly compatible with MySQL.
```

---
title: JSON Utility Functions
summary: Learn about JSON utility functions.
---

> # JSON Utility Functions
> 
> This document describes JSON utility functions.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
